---
title: Browser Extension CG ad-hoc teleconf — 09 Jun 2016
date: 2016-06-09
---

  <p>See also: <a href="http://www.w3.org/2016/06/09-browserext-irc">IRC log</a></p>

  <h2><a name="attendees" id="attendees">Attendees</a></h2>

  <div class="intro">
    <dl>
      <dt>Present</dt>

      <dd>Andrey Rybka (andrey-r), Kris Maglione (kmag), Mike Pietraszak (mikepie), Florian Rivoal (Florian)</dd>

      <dt>Regrets</dt>

      <dt>Chair</dt>

      <dd>Florian</dd>

      <dt>Scribe</dt>

      <dd>Florian</dd>
    </dl>
  </div>

  <h2>Contents</h2>

  <ul>
    <li>
      <a href="#agenda">Topics</a>

      <ol>
        <li><a href="#item01">WebIDL conventions</a></li>

        <li><a href="#item02">Top level object name and protocol
        name</a></li>

        <li><a href="#item03">How to identify
        functions/properties/events under the objects we've
        identified</a></li>

        <li><a href="#item04">TPAC</a></li>

        <li><a href="#item05">next meeting</a></li>
      </ol>
    </li>

    <li><a href="#ActionSummary">Summary of Action Items</a></li>

    <li><a href="#ResolutionSummary">Summary of
    Resolutions</a></li>
  </ul>
  <hr>

  <div class="meeting">
    
    <p class="irc">&lt;<cite>Florian</cite>&gt; Scribenick:
    Florian</p>

    <h3 id="item01">WebIDL conventions</h3>

    <p class="irc">&lt;<cite>kmag</cite>&gt; <a href="https://gist.github.com/97fa5b3cf4599df92ee5066bde47c162">https://gist.github.com/97fa5b3cf4599df92ee5066bde47c162</a></p>

    <p class="phone"><cite>kmag:</cite> This link is what I plan to
    send<br>
    ... there's basicaly to options:<br>
    ... one use the CheckAnyPermissions attribute, and one that
    breaks it down and specifies it in words</p>

    <p class="irc">&lt;<cite>andrey-r</cite>&gt; The IDL looks
    good</p>

    <p class="phone"><cite>kmag:</cite> I can walk you through
    this</p>

    <p class="phone"><cite>mikepie:</cite> Please do</p>

    <p class="phone"><cite>kmag:</cite> There's a top level
    interface call ExtensionGlobal<br>
    ... it has one property, "browser"<br>
    ... [... describes the content of the mail pasted above
    ...]</p>

    <p class="phone"><cite>mikepie:</cite> I like this model a
    lot<br>
    ... it is a clean way to extend window.<br>
    ... I think it would help if you could expand a bit with examples, to make it easier to understand.</p>

    <p class="irc">&lt;<cite>andrey-r</cite>&gt; I agree a little
    more details would help for anyone on mailing list</p>

    <p class="phone"><cite>mikepie:</cite> It can work for dynamic
    capabilities, added during execution</p>

    <p class="phone"><cite>kmag:</cite> That's the way it is done
    in webapps for the navigator property, saying this must only be
    exposed in certain contexts.</p>

    <p class="phone"><cite>andrey-r:</cite> More details would be
    good, or people on the mailing list will have a hard time
    understanding.<br>
    ... but I like the proposal.</p>

    <p class="phone"><cite>Florian:</cite> Where will you send it?
    both lists?</p>

    <p class="phone"><cite>kmag:</cite> I was thinking of the WebIDL mailing list, but I can CC the browserext CG.</p>

    <p class="irc">&lt;<cite>andrey-r</cite>&gt; Both list would be
    good</p>

    <p class="phone"><cite>mikepie:</cite> Any thoughts about the
    events object?</p>

    <p class="phone"><cite>kmag:</cite> Would have to give a
    different name, "tabs" is a terrible name.<br>
    ... Maybe call it broadcaster or dispatcher or something?</p>

    <p class="phone"><cite>mikepie:</cite> If we can move forward
    with this, I can use it to write up the draft,
    but there might be some push back, so don't want to rush into using
    it before we got feedback.</p>

    <p class="phone"><cite>kmag:</cite> The only push back could be
    about using attributes that aren't part of the spec</p>

    <h3 id="item02">Top level object name and protocol name</h3>

    <p class="phone"><cite>mikepie:</cite> I can go with "browser" or
    "navigator.extension", and prefer "browser", but Opera was
    preferring the other one.</p>

    <p class="irc">&lt;<cite>andrey-r</cite>&gt; I am ok with
    both</p>

    <p class="phone"><cite>kmag:</cite> for the protocol,
    browser-extensions:// feels too long</p>

    <p class="irc">&lt;<cite>mikepie</cite>&gt; How about
    browser-ext:// ?</p>

    <p class="irc">&lt;<cite>andrey-r</cite>&gt; browser-ext:// -
    Yes</p>

    <p class="phone"><cite>Florian:</cite> is browser:// too short
    for the protocol name?</p>

    <p class="phone"><cite>mikepie:</cite> Microsoft people
    expressed concern about extension:// for being to short / generic.</p>

    <p class="phone"><cite>Florian:</cite> browserext:// ?</p>

    <p class="phone"><cite>kmag:</cite> Happy eitherway</p>

    <p class="phone"><cite>mikepie:</cite> I think browserext:// is
    good</p>

    <p class="irc">&lt;<cite>andrey-r</cite>&gt; agree</p>

    <p class="phone"><cite>Florian:</cite> and just browser for the
    object?</p>

    <p class="irc">&lt;<cite>mikepie</cite>&gt; And browser.* for
    object</p>

    <p class="phone"><cite>Florian:</cite> Opera proposed "nex", do
    we want to to follow that?</p>

    <p class="phone"><cite>mikepie:</cite> it does make sense, but
    I prefer what we just said</p>

    <p class="phone"><cite>kmag:</cite> I'd be ok for the top level
    object, not the protocol</p>

    <p class="phone"><cite>Florian:</cite> Seem there's no
    objection either way, and most people prefering browser & browserext://. Should we resolve on that?</p>

    <p class="phone"><cite>mikepie:</cite> Want to loop in Shwetank</p>

    <p class="phone"><cite>Florian:</cite> Sure. Resolutions during
    meeting are provisional anway.</p>

    <p class="phone"><strong class="resolution" id="resolution01"><a href="https://github.com/browserext/browserext/issues/2">RESOLUTION: use "browser" as the top level
		    object, and browserext:// as the protocol name</a></strong></p>

    <p class="phone"><cite>Florian:</cite> Do we need to register
    that protocol?</p>

    <p class="phone"><cite>mikepie:</cite> I can do
    that</p>
<a name="action01" id="action01"></a>

    <p class="irc">&lt;<cite>scribe</cite>&gt;
    <strong>ACTION:</strong> mikepie to register browserext://
    [recorded in <a href="https://github.com/browserext/browserext/issues/3">
    https://github.com/browserext/browserext/issues/3</a></p>

    <h3 id="item03">How to identify functions/properties/events
    under the objects we've identified</h3>

    <p class="phone"><cite>mikepie:</cite> How do we do that?
    Should I prepare something for the next meeting?</p>

    <p class="phone"><cite>Florian:</cite> Set it up as a github
    issue, and we discuss there, and take it by phone once it's settled down somewhat?</p>

    <p class="phone"><cite>mikepie:</cite> Sounds good.</p>

    <p class="phone"><cite>Florian:</cite> Once we have that and
    the IDL, we can make a spec that looks like one</p>

    <p class="phone"><cite>mikepie:</cite> Yes</p>

    <h3 id="item04">TPAC</h3>

    <p class="phone"><cite>Florian:</cite> What do we want to do
    there?</p>

    <p class="phone"><cite>andrey-r:</cite> Meet :)</p>

    <p class="phone"><cite>Florian:</cite> I've requested a time
    slot, on Thursday IIRC.</p>

    <p class="phone"><cite>mikepie:</cite> First time for CGs to
    meet at TPAC right?</p>

    <p class="phone"><cite>Florian:</cite> Yes</p>

    <p class="phone"><cite>mikepie:</cite> Should we try and have a
    more complete spec to review?</p>

    <p class="phone"><cite>andrey-r:</cite> Yes, hard to be
    productive otherwise.</p>

    <p class="phone"><cite>mikepie:</cite> Should native messaging
    be together?</p>

    <p class="irc">&lt;<cite>andrey-r</cite>&gt; Native messaging
    is very important topic</p>

    <p class="phone"><cite>Florian:</cite> We can only book for the
    CG, not per topic, so it will have to be together anyway.</p>

    <p class="phone"><cite>andrey-r:</cite> Is this going to be
    madness again, with stickers on the board?</p>

    <p class="irc">&lt;<cite>andrey-r</cite>&gt; Sorry</p>

    <p class="phone"><cite>Florian:</cite> Madness is the Wednesday
    "unconference". CG meetings are different, we should get a sane time slot.<br>
    ... I'll follow up</p>
<a name="action02" id="action02"></a>

    <p class="irc">&lt;<cite>scribe</cite>&gt;
    <strong>ACTION:</strong> florian to check if we got the time
    slot requested [recorded in <a href="https://github.com/browserext/browserext.github.io/issues/8">
    https://github.com/browserext/browserext.github.io/issues/8</a></p>

    <p class="irc">&lt;<cite>andrey-r</cite>&gt; I was saying that
    I would prefer to meet as early as possible, but if thursday is
    best for most that's fine</p>

    <p class="phone"><cite>Florian:</cite> Houdini shows that you
    can have productive meetings for high level discussions, but in
    our case having concrete things to discuss would indeed be
    better, so let's try to have a draft spec.</p>

    <h3 id="item05">next meeting</h3>

    <p class="phone"><cite>Florian:</cite> It would be good to have
    topics ahead of time, please file github issues or ML
    threads.</p>

    <p class="phone"><cite>mikepie:</cite> When do we meet next</p>

    <p class="phone"><cite>andrey-r:</cite> Anytime!</p>

    <p class="phone"><cite>Florian:</cite> Not next week, but
    anytime is generally OK.</p>

    <p class="phone"><cite>mikepie:</cite> June 29, same time?</p>

    <p class="phone"><strong class="resolution" id="resolution02"><a href="https://github.com/browserext/browserext.github.io/issues/9">RESOLUTION: next meeting June 29, same time</a></strong></p>
  </div>

  <h2><a name="ActionSummary" id="ActionSummary">Summary of Action
  Items</a></h2>
<!-- Action Items -->
  <strong>[NEW]</strong> <strong>ACTION:</strong> florian to check
  if we got the time slot requested [recorded in <a href="http://www.w3.org/2016/06/09-browserext-minutes.html#action02">http://www.w3.org/2016/06/09-browserext-minutes.html#action02</a>]<br>

  <strong>[NEW]</strong> <strong>ACTION:</strong> mikepie to
  register browserext:// [recorded in <a href="http://www.w3.org/2016/06/09-browserext-minutes.html#action01">http://www.w3.org/2016/06/09-browserext-minutes.html#action01</a>]<br>

   <br>

  <h2><a name="ResolutionSummary" id="ResolutionSummary">Summary of
  Resolutions</a></h2>
<!-- Resolutions -->

  <ol>
    <li><a href="#resolution01">use "browser" as the top level
    object, and browserext:// as the protocol name</a></li>

    <li><a href="#resolution02">next meeting June 29, same
    time</a></li>
  </ol><br>
  

  

  
